AWS S3
Used for backup and storage of data
Allows to store files called objects in directories called buckets
Buckets are defined in a region level
Objects have a key which is the full path to the object 
Max object size is 5TB, If uploading more than 5Th, use multi-part upload
   
Security - json based policies:
      
1. User based 
IAM policies - which API calls should be allowed for a specific user from IAM

2. Resource based
Bucket Policies - bucket wide rules, can be assigned from the s3 console. 
  Eg: Makes a s3 bucket public, allows cross account access
Object Access Control List (ACL) - finer grain security (can be disabled)
Bucket Access Control List (ACL) - can be disabled

An IAM principal can access an s3 object if the user IAM permission allows it or the resource policy allows it and there is no explicit denial.

Static Website Hosting:
S3 can host static websites and have them accessible on the Internet.

Versioning:
You can version the files in S3. The settings has to be enabled in bucket level. Any file that is not versioned prior to enabling versioning will have version null.

Replication: 
Asynchronous replication of data from source bucket to destination bucket. Buckets can be in different AWS accounts.
CRR - Cross Region Replication: compliance, lower latency access, replication across accounts
SRR - Same Region Replication: log aggregation, live replication between production and test accounts
To enable replication, we need to first enable versioning in source and destination bucket.

After you enable replication, only new objects are replicated. You can replicate existing objects using S3 batch replication. It replicates existing objects and objects that failed replication.
There is no chaining in replication. If bucket1 has replication into bucket2, which has replication into bucket3. Then objects created in bucket1 are not replicated to bucket3.
For delete operations: Can replicate delete markers from source to target (optional setting).

Steps to Enable S3 Replication:
To enable S3 replication, follow these key steps:

1. Enable Versioning: Both the source and destination buckets must have versioning enabled.
2. Set Up a Replication Rule: Define the replication rules to specify which objects to replicate and how (including the destination bucket and storage class).
3. IAM Role for S3 Replication: You need an IAM role that allows Amazon S3 to replicate objects on your behalf.


